Add theme documentation (#5)
mautic/developer-documentation-new: docs/themes/getting_started.rst

Getting Started
==========================================================

> Themes can be used to create default content and layouts for emails and landing pages. Content is written in the `Twig templating language <https://twig.symfony.com/>`__.

Author: Good idea. I'll look at implementing that in a direct push to the repo.

> Themes can be used to create default content and layouts for emails and landing pages. Content is written in the `Twig templating language <https://twig.symfony.com/>`__.

Author: I'm having trouble with this. Will have to look at it again next week.

Finally, a special ``system`` theme can be used to override system templates to avoid customizing core code that could be lost with future upgrades.

Directory Structure
==========================================================

A theme is made of three components: the config, twig files (HTML content), and thumbnails::

    config.json
        html/
            email.html.twig
            form.html.twig
            message.html.twig
            page.html.twig
    thumbnail.png
    thumbnail_email.png
    thumbnail_form.png
    thumbnail_page.png

Config File
-----------

The config file tells Mautic how to utilize the theme.

.. code-block:: json

    {
      "name": "Theme Name",
      "author": "John Doe",
      "authorUrl": "https://john-doe-the-mautic-theme-builder.com",
      "features": [
        "email",
        "form",
        "page"
      ],
      "builder": ["legacy", "grapesjsbuilder"]
    }

name
    This is the name of the theme as displayed in Mautic.
author
    This displays in the theme manager as credit to the author of the theme.
authorUrl
    URL used for the author link.
features

>     An array of strings that tells Mautic which features the theme supports. Currently recognized values are ``email`` (email builder template), ``form`` (formatting the form page) and ``page`` (page builder template). A corresponding ``html/[feature].html.twig`` file is required for each feature supported. For example, if the theme supports ``email``, then there should be a ``html/email.html.twig`` file. See Twig Files more information on each feature.

Author: Each feature that correlates to a twig file has its own section. Example being https://github.com/mautic/developer-documentation-new/pull/5/files#diff-38fb46b9406304cfdb1cb3edc4ba4571e1504feec0fa593b37c1d6ccd7392aa1R80. Will change the above to better support linking to those individual sections.

builder

>     Array of strings for which builder the theme supports. Currently only applies to themes that support ``page`` or ``email``. By default, themes without this will only be recognized by Mautic's legacy builder. New themes built should declare the specific builders it supports.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This contains an array of strings declaring which Builder the Theme supports. This currently only applies to Themes that support ``page`` or ``email``. By default, Themes without this line will only be recognized by Mautic's legacy builder. New Themes built should declare the specific Builders it supports.
```

> Twig Files

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Twig files
```

-------------------------

html/message.html.twig
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> This file is a simple message file mainly used as the landing page for when a lead unsubscribes or resubscribes to the system’s emails. But may be used by other areas so should be included in all themes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This file is mainly used as the Landing Page for when a Lead unsubscribes or resubscribes to the system’s emails. It may be used by other areas, so should be included in all Themes.
```

> It requires echoing two variables: ``message`` and ``content``. ``message`` contains the string message such as "You have been unsubscribed..." content will either be empty or contain the HTML of a form that's been associated with the email as an unsubscribe form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It requires echoing two variables: ``message`` and ``content``. ``message`` contains the string message such as "You have been unsubscribed...", whereas ``content`` will either be empty or contain the HTML of a Form that's been associated with the Email as an unsubscribe form.
```

.. code-block:: twig

    <html>
        <head></head>
        <body>
            <div>
                <h2>{{ message|raw }}</h2>
                {% if content is defined %}
                <div>{{ content|raw }}</div>
                {% endif %}
            </div>
        </body>
    </html>

html/email.html.twig
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> This file defines the base template when creating a new email and should contain HTML suited for email clients.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This file defines the base template when creating a new Email and should contain HTML suited for email clients.
```

> The GrapesJs builder supports the `mjml email framework <https://mjml.io/>`__.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The GrapesJs Builder supports the `mjml email framework <https://mjml.io/>`__.
```

> .. code-block:: html

Reviewer: Technically, we should be using email.mjml.twig rather than email.html.twig, however the uploader in Mautic would not work properly (it required the email.html.twig) and nobody was able to fix it, so this was a hacky workaround to add support for reading MJML in the HTML file. Perhaps we should not be telling folks to do that in the docs? I'm not sure. Maybe worth discussing more widely.

Author: Is this the only way to get it to work at the moment? Were any other work arounds discussed? If it's the only way, then I think we have to leave it or people will not know how to build their own themes. Unless the proposal is to force people to manually install themes without going through the uploader? 

From a product perspective, something would have to tell Mautic what files are required. That should probably be the builder so maybe the validation code needs to be refactored to dispatch an event where the enabled builder can do its own validation.

Reviewer: I think that it is the only way at present to use the theme uploader. We had wanted to allow the upload of themes with an email.mjml.twig file for MJML themes but nobody was available to make the necessary changes so this was the workaround. So I guess if we are not going to change that behaviour then we keep it as we have it.

    <mjml>
      <mj-body>
        <mj-raw>
          <!-- Company Header -->
        </mj-raw>
        <mj-section background-color="#f0f0f0">
          <mj-column>
            <mj-text font-style="bold" font-size="24px" color="#6f6f6f">My Company</mj-text>
          </mj-column>
        </mj-section>
        <mj-raw>
          <!-- Confirm  text -->
        </mj-raw>
        <mj-section background-color="#fafafa">
          <mj-column width="400px">
            <mj-text font-style="bold" font-size="22px" font-family="Helvetica Neue" color="#626262">Please confirm your subscription!</mj-text>
            <mj-button background-color="#F45E43" font-style="bold" href="#">Yes, subscribe me to the list</mj-button>
            <mj-text color="#525252" font-size="16" line-height="1.5">If you received this email by mistake, simply delete it. You won't be subscribed if you don't click the confirmation link above.<br/><br/>For questions about this list, please contact:

>     email@email.com</mj-text>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    email@example.com</mj-text>
```

          </mj-column>
        </mj-section>
            <mj-raw>
          <!-- Confirm  text -->
        </mj-raw>
            <mj-section background-color="#fafafa">
          <mj-column width="400px">
            <mj-text color="#525252" line-height="1.2">
              <p>Company Name<br/>111 Amazing Street<br/>
                Beautiful City</p></mj-text>

          </mj-column>
        </mj-section>
      </mj-body>
    </mjml>

html/page.html.twig
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> This file defines the base template when creating a new landing page and can contain advanced HTML for browsers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This file defines the base template when creating a new Landing Page and can contain advanced HTML for browsers.
```

.. code-block:: twig

    <!DOCTYPE html>
    <html>
        <head>
            {% if page is defined %}
            <title>{pagetitle}</title>
            <meta name="description" content="{pagemetadescription}">
            {% endif %}
            {{ outputHeadDeclarations() }}
        </head>
        <body>
            {{ outputScripts('bodyOpen') }}
            {% block content %}{% endblock %}
            {{ outputScripts('bodyClose') }}
        </body>
    </html>

html/form.html.twig
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> This is used to format the page a form is embedded into when viewing the form at /form/ID or when using the iframe method of embedding a form into a 3rd party page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a Form is embedded in a Landing Page, this file is used when accessing the form at /form/ID or when using the iframe method of embedding a Form into a third party page.
```

This should output the variables ``message``, ``header``, and ``content``.

> See Customizing Forms on how to customize form fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See Customizing Forms on how to customize Form fields.
```

Please use a link to enable folks to hop to this section.

.. code-block:: twig

    <html>
        <head></head>
        <body>
            {% if message is defined %}
                <div>
                    <h2>{{ message|raw }}</h2>
                </div>
            {% endif %}

            <div>
                {% if header is defined %}
                <h4>{{ header }}</h4>
                {% endif %}
                {{ content|raw }}
            </div>
        </body>
    </html>

Thumbnails
----------

> The thumbnail should be a screenshot of the theme with demo content. The width x height should be 575 x 600 px. This thumbnail will be available for Mautic users for quick theme preview in the Email edit form, Landing Page edit form and the Theme Manager.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The thumbnail should be a screenshot of the Theme with demo content. The dimensions should be 575x600px. This thumbnail will be available to Mautic users for quick Theme preview in the Email edit form, Landing Page edit form and the Theme Manager.
```

> Mautic will look for ``thumbnail.png`` as default but if you want a specific image for different templates, you can add a ``thumbnail_[feature].png`` per feature with a custom thumbnail. For example, ``thumbnail_email.png``, ``thumbnail_page.png`` or ``thumbnail_form.png``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mautic will look for ``thumbnail.png`` by default, however if you want a specific image for different feature, you can add a ``thumbnail_[feature].png`` with a custom thumbnail. For example, ``thumbnail_email.png``, ``thumbnail_page.png`` or ``thumbnail_form.png``.
```
